docs/world.md, before:

# world

cong qian, 从前, a long time ago/once upon a time, warring states

a historical mmorpg based in ancient china during the warring states
from 481-221 BC.

the world of cong qian is immersive, rich, and filled with opportunities and adventures for each player, the choices you make can alter the entire path in the game.  this will be set in a fictional time period in china during the seven kingdoms, each of the kingdoms are at war with each other.  players can choose their own path like joining the army, becoming a merchant, an artisan, working in government, becoming a street beggar, or an outlaw.

## kingdoms

1.  Zhao
1.  Qi
1.  Qin
1.  Yan
1.  Han
1.  Wei
1.  Chu

this is part of the zhou dynasty which can be considered an eighth kingdom for all intensive purposes.

each kingdom will have different legal systems, technical abilities, resources, policies, figures, military, etc.  players
can also choose to become unaffiliated with any kingdom and play as outlaws.

### Legal System

the legal system is different for each kingdom, the general laws and enforcement of those laws will vary.  There will need to be those that make the policies and laws, those that enforce the laws which is essentially the government

### Governance

Governance has to do with laws, taxation, budgeting, waging war, diplomacy, infrastructure like roads, wells, but also things like police, fire stations, public services, whether land is given to vassals in a feudal system, etc.

### Military

Strategy, draft, training, battle, etc.

### Economy

Trade, government spending, service, etc.  Should each kingdom have a different currency?


### Kingdom attributes

These attributes change over time.

attribute | description
---|---
wealth | measured in taels
population | should put some measures to prevent everyone from going to a single kingdom, there should be a breakdown of male/female, age ranges, etc
tax rate | frequency of collection depends on law
military draft | effective or non-effective
king |
queen |
successors | should be an array
prime minister |
strategist |
ministers |
generals |
birth rate | this can fluctuate
natural disaster rate | floods, typhoons, earthquakes, heat wave
cities |
capital |


### Kingdom natural resources (initial state)

attribute | description
---|---
wood |
stone |
bronze |
copper |
iron |
cotton |
animals |


### Kingdom calculated attributes

attribute | description
---|---
corruption level | this will be calculated
birth rate | 
death rate | breakdown based on war, disease


### Zhao

details | description
---|---
ruler | wu ling
location | northeastern and central shanxi and southwestern hebei
capital | handan
cities | changping, zhongshan
philosophers | shen dao, gongsun long, xun zi


### Qin

details | description
---|---
ruler | huiwen
location | 
capital | yueyang
cities | xianyang, 
philosophers | shang yang
strategy | reform, sow discontent amongst 6 kingdoms

### Chu

details | description
---|---
ruler | 
location |
capital | shouchun
cities | 
philosophers |

### Qi

details | description
---|---
ruler | wei
location | 
capital | yingqiu
cities | 
philosophers |

### Yan

details | description
---|---
ruler | zhao
location | shanxi, hebei
capital | ji
cities | 
philosophers |
generals | yue yi

### Han

details | description
---|---
ruler | xuan hui
location | shanxi, henan
capital | yangzhai, xinzheng
cities | daliang, zhou
philosophers | shen buhai

### Wei

details | description
---|---
ruler | hui wang
location | henan, hebei, shanxi, shandong
capital | daliang
cities | 
philosophers |
generals | pang juan
strategy | conquer eastern kingdoms that have vast resources, qin is a poor wasteland

Commit message:

world needs to be living and evolving.

docs/world.md, after:

# world

cong qian, 从前, a long time ago/once upon a time, warring states

a historical mmorpg based in ancient china during the warring states
from 481-221 BC.

the world of cong qian is immersive, rich, and filled with opportunities and adventures for each player, the choices you make can alter the entire path in the game.  this will be set in a fictional time period in china during the seven kingdoms, each of the kingdoms are at war with each other.  players can choose their own path like joining an army, becoming a merchant or artisan, working in government, becoming a street beggar, or an outlaw.

the world should be alive and with variations to make things more realistic and each experience unique.  for example, in congqian, not all horses will be the same speed, there are fast horses and there are slow horses, having a way to distinguish will make the game play more interesting.  some trees will produce stronger lumber and it will be up to the players to explore and find these types of resources.  typically a game will rely on respawning resources like a cow to give others an opportunity to fulfill the same quest which does not model the real world, the world becomes a static representation.  in congqian if you use up all the resources, you'll need to find somewhere else with resources.  this provides an added dimension for players, you could entirely spend time just chopping wood in the world to become the top lumber producer, or you could focus on war and fighting if that's what you enjoy.  this freedom of choice provides the game with multiple modes of play, but altogether, each player contribues to the world and the direction.

intially there will be a set of events that get the game started, events will be added to the world by editors and eventually by the players, but many of the decisions and outcomes made by players will affect the history and transgression of the world, this will be updated in the game's news which will also be an evolving and a living element of the game, in other words, the world is changing constantly, it is not a fixed world.  the hope is that in a few months time, the world will have completely changed or diverged from the original intention of the editors, though the editors will always have the opportunity to play the "god of hand" and alter the direction of the world to balance or add more interesting manifestations of the game.

## kingdoms

1.  Zhao
1.  Qi
1.  Qin
1.  Yan
1.  Han
1.  Wei
1.  Chu

this is part of the zhou dynasty which can be considered an eighth kingdom for all intensive purposes.

each kingdom will have different legal systems, technical abilities, resources, policies, figures, military, etc.  players
can also choose to become unaffiliated with any kingdom and play as outlaws.

### Legal System

the legal system is different for each kingdom, the general laws and enforcement of those laws will vary.  There will need to be those that make the policies and laws, those that enforce the laws which is essentially the government

### Governance

Governance has to do with laws, taxation, budgeting, waging war, diplomacy, infrastructure like roads, wells, but also things like police, fire stations, public services, whether land is given to vassals in a feudal system, etc.

### Military

Strategy, draft, training, battle, etc.

### Economy

Trade, government spending, service, etc.  Should each kingdom have a different currency?


### Kingdom attributes

These attributes change over time.

attribute | description
---|---
wealth | measured in taels
population | should put some measures to prevent everyone from going to a single kingdom, there should be a breakdown of male/female, age ranges, etc
tax rate | frequency of collection depends on law
military draft | effective or non-effective
king |
queen |
successors | should be an array
prime minister |
strategist |
ministers |
generals |
birth rate | this can fluctuate
natural disaster rate | floods, typhoons, earthquakes, heat wave
cities |
capital |


### Kingdom natural resources (initial state)

attribute | description
---|---
wood |
stone |
bronze |
copper |
iron |
cotton |
animals |


### Kingdom calculated attributes

attribute | description
---|---
corruption level | this will be calculated
birth rate | 
death rate | breakdown based on war, disease


### Zhao

details | description
---|---
ruler | wu ling
location | northeastern and central shanxi and southwestern hebei
capital | handan
cities | changping, zhongshan
philosophers | shen dao, gongsun long, xun zi


### Qin

details | description
---|---
ruler | huiwen
location | 
capital | yueyang
cities | xianyang, 
philosophers | shang yang
strategy | reform, sow discontent amongst 6 kingdoms

### Chu

details | description
---|---
ruler | 
location |
capital | shouchun
cities | 
philosophers |

### Qi

details | description
---|---
ruler | wei
location | 
capital | yingqiu
cities | 
philosophers |

### Yan

details | description
---|---
ruler | zhao
location | shanxi, hebei
capital | ji
cities | 
philosophers |
generals | yue yi

### Han

details | description
---|---
ruler | xuan hui
location | shanxi, henan
capital | yangzhai, xinzheng
cities | daliang, zhou
philosophers | shen buhai

### Wei

details | description
---|---
ruler | hui wang
location | henan, hebei, shanxi, shandong
capital | daliang
cities | 
philosophers |
generals | pang juan
strategy | conquer eastern kingdoms that have vast resources, qin is a poor wasteland
